george is still searching for his
ultimate mini predator
he has a particular animal in mind the
net
casting spider
during the day they hide but at night
they use a unique hunting strategy
oh hang on a minute
oh my god it's the first time i've seen
this
what it does is it spins a framework of
sills which holds itself in place it
then
spins with special syrup which is this a
blue
silk which isn't the same as the
ordinary silk it makes
and that blue silk is very stretchy and
then
when the prey walks past underneath
the the huge eyes on the back row of the
head see it
in the fraction of a second the front
legs the forefront legs
stretch open the web as wide as it can
and throw it over the prey and then
it scoops it up into the into the web
and it happens in
such a fast time if you only had your
eyesight
you would hardly see anything a blur it
would just be a blur and
what would be great is to get this
filmed in super slow-mo it would just be
amazing
like most spiders net casters have eight
eyes
but one pair is huge biologists think
these are particularly sensitive
letting the spider target prey in the
dark
to examine their incredible hunting
behavior for himself
george has called in one of the camera
crew sophie darlington
so where do you think well i'm just
trying to i don't want to i can see
these scaffoldings are coming down he's
going to he is going to
catch something that's going to pass
beneath there
sophie sets up a high-speed camera that
will slow down the action
40 times this behavior has rarely been
seen in the wild
with the camera set there is little they
can do but wait
this is something i've always wanted to
see
to have a chance of seeing it firsthand
in the jungle
is just worth everything
okay here we go
what is it a tiny
crooked
oh that is just fantastic
sophie you are a genius well done
absolutely
can i check the shop look at it look
only when the footage has been slowed
down will they see if sophie captured
the kill
so she doesn't know okay you ready
yeah then tell you the rig is just
it's just about touch that wire there
orientates opens the net
that is absolutely fantastic
so it's not just the eyesight the
antennae of the cricket
touched one of the wires was the trigger
yeah
can see for the first time that net
casting spiders
are highly sophisticated they use
multiple senses to catch prey in the
dark
but i've never seen it from with my own
eyes
that was awesome until now she's a
superb creature
[Music]
[Applause]
you